[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
you're convinced that you
can reverse terminal cancer?
>>STANISLAW BURZYNSKI:
I am because I
am doing this all the time.
>>NOORY: You've seen it happen?
>>BURZYNSKI: Not in
everybody because it's
very complex, but in
many, many patients, yes.
There's abundance of
evidence that this works.
It should be approved now.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BURZYNSKI: And they're
dragging their feet.
>>NOORY: It'd save lives today.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes,
people are dying.
People could be saved, and
they are dragging their feet.
This will be revealed
to the public.
Enough is enough, I would say.
>>NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Dr. Stanislaw
Burzynski with us has
been researching and
developing cancer treatments
for more than 40 years
with incredible results.
The government does
not want you to know
about all these results.
Dr. Burzynski thank you, and
thank you for joining us.
>>BURZYNSKI: It is my pleasure.
Thank you very much.
>>NOORY: I have heard
so much about you.
This is my first
time meeting you,
and I feel like I'm in
the presence of a god.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank you.
>>NOORY: What you have done--
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, I think--
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
>>BURZYNSKI: It was
coincidence at the beginning.
So I was lucky to
make the discovery,
and then I decided to
persist and pursue this.
>>NOORY: Let's go
back to the beginning.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
the beginning--
>>NOORY: Born in Poland, right?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, the
beginning was very humble.
When I was a medical student,
I began work at the same time
in the department
of biochemistry.
When I became the
second grade student,
I was already giving
lectures to the students
from the first year.
So I was involved in
biochemical research.
One of the projects was
to study amino acids
in blood of patients
with various diseases.
When I did study
these amino acids,
I found that there was
some unknown substances--
>>NOORY: Uh huh.
>>BURZYNSKI: Which
were not amino acids,
but they were very similar.
So I was intrigued
what they are.
And I found that these
substances were peptides.
Peptides are chains
of amino acids.
>>NOORY: Natural or unnatural?
>>BURZYNSKI: Naturally-occurring
peptides in human blood.
What's even more important
is that in advanced cancer
patients, you
could not see them.
They were gone.
So this gave me the idea that
perhaps they play some parts
in defense against cancer.
>>NOORY: Defense.
>>BURZYNSKI: I
fractionated them,
and when I came to
the United States,
I already had 39 peptide
fractions isolated from blood.
Nobody ever heard about it, OK.
It's like suddenly
discovering archipelago
of the islands which were hidden
from the rest of the world.
I was very lucky
because I received
the position of
assistant professor
at Baylor College
of Medicine, which
was very good medical school.
Doing research of
peptide, they just
got a Nobel Prize
for two people who
did the research on peptides.
They left Baylor,
and I had an honor
to inherit their equipment.
So I got a good start.
>>NOORY: You did.
>>BURZYNSKI: I was 27 years
old, and when I was 28
I already was nominated by the
National Cancer Institute US
principal investigator to
study the peptides which
I discovered.
I was somewhat unhappy
about it because obviously,
the people who I supervised
could be my father.
They were very well
known scientists
at M.D. Anderson and Baylor.
>>NOORY: What is a cancer?
What is cancer?
>>BURZYNSKI: Cancer
is the disease
of information processing.
How it's created,
because, during our life
the genes, which we
inherited from our parents,
are exposed to a variety of
factors, and they are mutating.
When you have a certain
number of mutated genes,
usually around 80, but
maximum's around 650,
they form a network.
They form a software.
And this software is
telling their body
how to make billions
of malignant cells.
I described this
theory 35 years ago,
but nobody really
paid attention to it.
>>NOORY: They're listening
to you now, aren't they?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah, yeah,
now, the entire medicine
is going in this
direction to try
to treat the genes
which are causing cancer
but are still behind,
probably 10 years, what we do.
They will come to this point,
but they will need time, OK.
Big institutions are slow.
And I am rather moving rapidly
because we are a small company.
And if you don't have
government interference,
we can really accomplish
a lot of things.
>>NOORY: And the cancer cells,
do they regenerate themselves?
>>BURZYNSKI: They
multiply all the time.
Cancer is also the
process of manufacturing.
Billions of these cells
are created every day.
>>NOORY: And they kill
off the good cells?
>>BURZYNSKI: They
starve the good cells.
They destroy the organs.
But at the same time, they die.
They may not survive longer
than a few days, some of them,
some others a little longer.
So if you cut off the
supply of cancer cells,
the cancer will be eliminated.
How you can cut off the supply?
Remove the software
which is telling
the body how to
make cancer cells,
and that's exactly what we do.
>>NOORY: What has been the
traditional, not your system,
but the traditional system
for medicine to treat cancer?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
traditional system
to treat cancer was introduced
about 180 years ago by a guy
who was born in my country.
His name was Rudolf Virchow.
He was a great
pathologist in 1845.
He introduced diagnosis of
cancer under microscope.
And that's what the
doctors are doing today.
There's nothing wrong about it.
They look under a microscope,
and they say well,
this picture looks like
such and such lung cancer.
Another one looks
like a breast cancer.
They put the labels, lung
cancer, breast cancer,
and they treat the name.
They don't see what
is causing this.
>>NOORY: What a huge difference.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, in the
our exclusive program,
Burzynski Cancer
Cure Cover-up, we
hear about some tragic
results of traditional methods
to treat cancer.
Let's look.
- What I'd like to talk to
you about today is my now
7-year-old daughter.
This is an identical twin.
Her sister is now dead.
Her sister, when she was
four years old, Kristin,
developed a
highly-malignant brain tumor
that had spread throughout
her spine and her brain.
The doctors told us that
we had really two options.
Take her home and let
her die, or bring her
in for massive dosages of chemo
and radiation simultaneously.
In either event, she
was going to die,
they were quite certain
of that, and very quickly.
Believing her only chance
to be the standard route,
we gave her the
chemo and radiation.
It burned her skull so bad
she had second degree burns,
and her hair never came back.
To change her diapers we
had to wear rubber gloves
because her urine was so
toxic, and it burned her.
At the end of six
months, miraculously,
she survived the standard
treatment, although,
there was a high
expectation she wouldn't.
She still had cancer.
We were told sorry, we've
done everything we can.
Now, she's going
to die, probably
within a couple of months.
My wife and I, choosing not to
accept that, started reading.
The first book I picked
up, the third chapter
discussed Dr. Burzynski.
As you may guess, I have
some expertise in fraud.
In fact, I'm quite
certain there are
enough attorneys in the room
that I could be voir dired
as an expert in fraud.
And I conducted my
own investigation.
I have no doubt the
man is not a fraud.
I have no doubt
that he does what
he does out of earnest belief
that his medicine works.
And now, you're in a position
to judge for yourselves
whether it works
or not, but it's
well-established by the
FDA that it's non-toxic.
18 months later,
we took my daughter
off the antineoplaston.
She had not died.
She had no signs of tumor.
She remained free for
18 months of cancer.
Within a month, the cancer
was widespread in her brain.
We put her back on
Burzynski's, by the way,
at the objections
of our doctors,
for some reason felt
that it had failed her.
We put her back on.
Within nine weeks, the
tumor was completely gone.
She died last July of
neurological necrosis.
Her brain fell apart
from the radiation.
The autopsy showed that she
was completely cancer-free.
Out of 52 cases of
that disease ever,
no one died cancer-free,
just Chrissy.
So she didn't die of
a terminal illness.
She died of my inability
to care for her properly,
and she died from bad advice.
She died because there's a
government institution that
disseminates false information
and is not looking out
for the welfare of the people.
>>NOORY: Wow, what a story.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
this is a tragic story
because she received twice
as high doses of radiation
as the other children.
At that time, they were
experimenting with this.
These days, nobody is
giving such heavy radiation.
She died from
radiation necrosis.
However, some of the
people who are sitting
at this congressional
investigation
are now surviving 33
years cancer-free.
The boy who was sitting
next to the speaker--
>>NOORY: Right next
to the speaker.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, the boy--
>>NOORY: On your program.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, the boy
was given only six months
to live when he came to us
because of a malignant brain
tumor.
He was seen by the best
specialist at Mayo Clinic.
They couldn't do
anything for him.
We got rid of his tumor.
Now, 33 years later,
he's doing extremely well
and living a normal life, as
well as many other people.
>>NOORY: What would
you say, doctor,
is your success rate in
treating cancerous tumors?
>>BURZYNSKI: At this moment,
the success rate is quite high.
It's from 66% objective response
to about 85% across the board,
if you are talking about some
40 different types of cancer.
>>NOORY: And
traditional medicine,
what percent would that be?
>>BURZYNSKI: Close to 0% because
these patients are terminal.
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>BURZYNSKI: They
tried everything.
Some of them, they have a
history of cancer for 20 years.
They were sent to hospice.
This is typical of patients.
Some are brought to us in coma.
Of course, not
everybody is responding,
but the results,
when we're attacking
the genes which are causing
the cancer, are amazing.
And they come very quickly.
But in order to respond, you
need to have the right genes.
They are coming from the
pool of 23,000 genes which
we have in our body.
The medications which
exist to treat the genes,
now, they count over 200.
But they usually
attack single genes.
If you have a patient with
brain tumor who has 600 genes,
you are out of luck.
But antineoplastons
are now attacking,
according to our research,
close to 180 mutated genes.
If you add antineoplastons,
you can get rid of many tumors.
But then you can add
some other medication
which hit the genes for which
antineoplastons don't work.
>>NOORY: How soon
do you see a change?
Somebody comes to you,
they have a tumor,
they have cancerous
tumors, you start them
on a program, which
we'll get into.
But how soon do you
see that change?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
first of all, we
would like to know if
we can help the patient,
and we are running
genomic analysis.
We don't do it in-house
anymore because there
are very good companies,
usually sponsored
by pharmaceutical
companies, which
are doing this much better
than what we did in the past.
This is covered by insurance.
The patient usually
doesn't pay anything.
We get the results in
seven days regarding--
>>NOORY: Seven days?
>>BURZYNSKI: Seven--
yes, whatever.
It was taking 10 years to
decipher the genome before.
Now, you can get the results
on the most important
mutated genes with colon
cancer in seven days.
And these are the genes
which are in blood.
Plus it's extremely sensitive in
detecting billion parts of gram
per cubic CC of blood.
So we find out if we can
help this patient or not.
If you've got some unusual genes
for which we don't have data,
then we cannot help.
But in most patients, we can.
And then usually,
if you are talking
about highly-malignant
tumors, they usually
respond very rapidly, or
they don't respond at all.
Glioblastoma, we have
seen glioblastoma--
>>NOORY: That's a brain tumor?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah,
extremely malignant tumor.
We are seeing glioblastoma
start going away
from MRIs within four weeks.
>>NOORY: My sister died of that.
>>BURZYNSKI: Of course, not
everybody is responding,
but we got something
like 85% response
rate, which the elimination, of
the tumor [INTERPOSING VOICES]
in classical variety
of glioblastoma, which
covers about 85% of patients.
>>NOORY: Isn't that what
Senator Edward Kennedy had also?
>>BURZYNSKI: Correct, yes.
Well, he was thinking
about coming to us,
but it was too late.
Finally, he died before
he was able to come.
>>NOORY: I was going to say
what is too late for a patient?
>>BURZYNSKI: Too late
for the person is usually
when he is in coma because
then it's difficult.
We have some patients
who recovered from coma,
and we got rid of the tumors.
But the chance is
something like probably 2/3
of them are going to
die, and they have
a variety of complications.
They may get pneumonia.
They may have a
bleeding from the tumor.
So such patients usually
don't have much chance.
But if the patient
has at least couple
of months expected
survival, I think
we have a fighting chance.
And we see the results
in most of these cancers
during the first month.
And on the top of
the response rate,
we have now breast cancer.
Triple negative breast
cancer is the most difficult,
and we are getting
66% response rate.
But in the other
advanced breast cancer,
they spread everywhere,
OK, we are now
at the level of close
to 90% response rate.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
And you are pretty
direct with a patient?
If they come to you, you tell--
>>BURZYNSKI: We have to.
We have to because first, we
screen the patient to find out
if they should come to us
or not because obviously,
some of them we cannot help.
>>NOORY: And you're in Houston.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, and they
travel from all over the world.
So obviously, we don't want
them to travel for nothing.
But we go through very extensive
consent process, informed
consent process, which
is required by the state
laws, numerous papers
which patient needs
to read, understand, and sign.
So this is very
strictly guarded by law.
And I can treat this right
only terminal cancer patients.
>>NOORY: That's
what you go after.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, well, again,
I like it because these people
are hopeless.
Nobody can help them anymore.
They tried everything.
So then we have a little more
freedom what we can do to help.
>>NOORY: And if you help them,
they're miracles, aren't they?
>>BURZYNSKI: You can see
results rather quickly.
We can have children who are
paralyzed, who cannot swallow,
who cannot walk.
And recently, we have
children with brainstem tumors
who could not only walk.
But from the wheelchair, they
could run through the corridor
after two weeks.
>>NOORY: What is the
Burzynski treatment plan?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, the
plan, we call it cyber war
because we're attacking
the program which
is necessary to make cancer.
We are not killing cancer cells.
We are attacking the
program which is causing
them to grow and multiply.
>>NOORY: I see.
>>BURZYNSKI: And
our treatment plan
consists of the proliferation
of antineoplastons,
which covers most of the genes.
Plus, we are prescribing
some other medications which
are called targeted medications,
or gene-targeted medications.
>>NOORY: How do you
administer it, IVs?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes,
antineoplastons
for such advanced patients
are administered IVs,
but they are given this at
home because we perfected
automatic delivery systems.
There's a special pump which
we ask the company to design,
and this delivers
automatically the medicine.
The patient does not
need to be hospitalized.
We teach them how
to program the pump.
They do it at home,
side effects minimal.
Of course, on the
top of that, we
may add some tablets of
gene-targeted medication, which
we can prescribe because we do
not cover all of these genes.
But if you are lucky enough, the
combination may work very well.
>>NOORY: I interviewed
a person by the name
of Ty Bollinger, who
wrote a book called
Cancer: Step Outside the Box.
He talks about how
the treatments,
the regular, normal
medical treatments
can be more harm than good.
- They operate on
someone, and they
cut into a cancerous tumor,
cutting into a tumor seeds
the cancer into the bloodstream.
>>NOORY: Goes all
over the place.
- It causes the cancerous cells
to go into the bloodstream,
>>NOORY: Where it might
have been isolated.
- Well, it was isolated.
That's the body's
self-protection mechanism
is to wall it off into a tumor.
It's not spreading
at that point.
Most of the spreading
of cancer happens
from either the diagnostic
treatments or the treatments
themselves, like surgery
to try to remove a tumor.
There's no way, if you remove
a tumor, that you are not
going to cut into that tumor
and spread some of those cancer
cells into the bloodstream.
Then it goes through the
blood, into the lymph,
and it's everywhere.
>>NOORY: What would you say is
one of the most dramatic cases
you've had of someone
who is near terminal
and you changed it,
you turned it around.
>>BURZYNSKI: A little
boy, three years old,
was brought to us from
Madras, or Chennai, in India.
Both parents were doctors.
He developed glioblastoma
of brainstem,
which is called DIPG, diffuse
intrinsic pontine glioma.
But on top of that,
this was the tumor
of the highest malignancy.
>>NOORY: Oh, yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: This is
uniformly deadly tumor.
>>NOORY: And fast.
>>BURZYNSKI: If you combine
strategic location of tumor
in the brain stem with very
heavy aggressiveness, well,
it's pretty much hopeless.
He was brought to us in coma.
After three months, the active
tumor was gone from the MRI.
>>NOORY: Gone.
>>BURZYNSKI: Gone,
well, from MRI.
Well, you can still see
some swelling, some scars,
but active tumor was gone.
And then he recovered from coma.
He was able to eat normally.
But we also have
some other couple
of patients who were
brought to us in coma,
and they didn't make it
because such patients are
vulnerable to develop pneumonia.
They usually received
radiation therapy.
Sometimes they receive blood
clots, sometimes they bleed.
So there are numerous
other medical problems,
and I have to treat these
patients as outpatient
because the treatment is not
approved in the hospital.
So I have to treat some of the
toughest cases in the world
outpatient, which, again,
during the epidemics,
it served a purpose because
they don't get COVID.
In the hospital, they
can get COVID and die.
But it's very difficult.
>>NOORY: When you have
a patient that survives
and the tumors
shrink and go away,
how does that make you feel?
>>BURZYNSKI: Numerous patients,
I published numerous articles
in scientific--
>>NOORY: But you must
feel good about that.
>>BURZYNSKI: Sure, in
scientific medical journals,
in peer reviewed
journals, now, we
are publishing average
article per month
on the long-term survival.
First time medical history,
like 27-year survival,
tumor-free, 23 years
survival, and we just
accepted another article about
25-year survival of DIPG.
>>NOORY: Do they ever come
back and thank you years later?
>>BURZYNSKI: We maintain
contact with people.
Of course, we have reunions.
We had 35 years
reunion, whatever,
and we are giving them
some decorations when
they survived such a long time.
But of course, there
are some people
who would like to
forget about it,
and they don't want to
talk about it because they
had a brain tumor a long time
ago, some other terrible--
>>NOORY: Bad memories, I guess.
>>BURZYNSKI: They don't
like to recall it.
We have a talented
attorney from California
who was treated by us in
1995 for glioblastoma.
We got rid of his tumor, but he
is alive and back in practice.
But he does not
advertise it because who
would like to go to the
attorney who had a brain tumor?
>>NOORY: How many patients do
you think you treat and work
on per year.
>>BURZYNSKI: We are maintaining
the patient load below 100
because it's very intensive.
The care is very
intensive, and we
don't want to really decrease
the standard of care.
So we would like to spend a lot
of time with these patients,
and they have a
lot of questions.
The whole families are coming.
For instance, we have
whole families coming
from New Zealand or Australia.
>>NOORY: They come from all
over the world, don't they?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah, and
they would like to know--
and we need to have people
who speak many languages.
Our staff speak somewhere
like 15 languages
so it's helpful also.
But we would like to limit
the number of patients
because we like to spend
a lot of time with them,
and we like to make sure that
they receive the best care.
>>NOORY: Are you surprised at
how well your treatment works?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, I am
surprised to a certain point
because it didn't come suddenly.
At the beginning, we didn't
have such a good response rate
because we were
perfecting our treatment.
It took many years to
come to this point.
>>NOORY: Perfecting
it and experimental.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah, well, initial
patients were treated in 1977,
and at that time,
20% of patients
who were in phase
I clinical trials
responded to the treatment.
Now, of course, we have
much better success rate.
We're around 80%.
>>NOORY: Is this
treatment, doctor,
that people without
cancer should take, too?
>>BURZYNSKI: No.
>>NOORY: Would it
be preventative?
>>BURZYNSKI: Not yet, we
are not at this level,
and the reason is
that the methods
to detect the genes which
are mutated in blood
are not yet so sensitive
to do it for people
who don't have cancer.
>>NOORY: I see.
>>BURZYNSKI: Because
they don't have
enough of this genetic
material in blood.
For instance, the patients
who have advanced cancer,
they may have something like
around 100 million parts
of gram per cubic CC of blood.
And this can be detected
by the current methods,
but people who
don't have cancer,
they may have a
million times less.
I introduced a method
which can study molecules
at such low level.
It's called phantom
molecular level.
Nano is a million times
less sensitive than phantom.
In 1974, I published
a method in Journal
of Analytical Biochemistry
how to analyze peptides
in the level of a million
times less than nano.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, it was
a very tedious method.
>>NOORY: I have
always said, doctor,
that all of us,
you, me, all of us
have cancer cells in our body.
It's our immune system
that helps suppress it.
Am I right?
>>BURZYNSKI: You're
right, but they
escape from the immune system.
In the immune system,
we have system
of antineoplastons, the
peptides we have discovered.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BURZYNSKI: When this peptide
goes down, then, of course,
the program to make
cancer cells is
expanding because
antineoplastons
are getting rid of the
software engineers of cancer.
Immune system is
killing cancer cells.
Antineoplastons are
not killing cancer.
They are removing software,
and they will die.
>>NOORY: So you
raise the peptide
level, is that what you do?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes,
ultimately, because, you
see, the treatment
with chemotherapy
originating from the war, when
they used gases to kill people,
to kill soldiers.
So this is toxic
treatment which kills
cells, which kills also people.
>>NOORY: It kills the
good stuff, too, right?
>>BURZYNSKI: But now, the name
of the game is the cyber war.
You can neutralize
the country if you
neutralize the
infrastructure, if you
utilize information processing.
You can see this all the time.
You don't need powerful bombs.
You can conquer
the country simply
by affecting the software.
And this is very
dangerous, but I
am using similar principal
how to cure cancer
in a peaceful way.
Don't poison cancer,
but remove software
which is necessary to make it.
>>NOORY: The medical schools,
are they teaching your system?
>>BURZYNSKI: Not at all.
>>NOORY: Not at all.
They usually say
bad words about us.
They don't cooperate with us.
They sabotage our
treatment when they
know that they can't do
anything for the patient
because they don't know
what to do with this.
But with a patient who will go
to the hospital for such reason
like pneumonia or
some other problem,
they usually tell
the patient go home
because this treatment
is not going to work.
So these doctors, they
behave in a horrible way,
except for a certain
percentage who works with us.
Somewhere like one out of 20
oncologists works with us.
It's nothing new about it.
It was always this way
when medical discovery
was presented.
>>NOORY: What about big pharma?
Are they jumping
in on this, going
let's see what he's doing.
Let's duplicate it.
Let's make money doing it.
>>BURZYNSKI: They
still don't get it,
that this would be
salvation for them,
because we are using
some of their medication
which works on the genes.
But they are very, very passive.
They each have their own
plans they would like to use,
whatever they introduce
for many, many years.
So they're not paying much
attention to what we have.
It's too early for that.
There will be a time
when all of them
will be crowded in our
door because finally they
will get it what it is.
>>NOORY: There's a Gaia show
called The Truth About Cancer.
Robert Scott Bell
and Darrell Wolfe
share their insights about why
these things are happening.
>>ROBERT SCOTT BELL: At the
time of the late 1800s and early
1900s, 20th century,
medical schools
taught a lot of
different things.
There were homeopathic
medical schools.
There were naturopathic schools.
There were eclectic
herbal-type medicine schools.
And so it was all there.
There was not one way.
And what happened was that
the Rockefeller and Carnegie
Foundations were interested
in establishing the one way.
How would they do that?
Well, they would get a hold
of the education system
and create a medical monopoly
via basically eliminating
all competition to
patent petrochemical
medical education.
That's the Flexner Report
of 1910, it became known.
Abraham and Simon Flexner
were hired to do this.
It was a preordained,
commissioned report.
>>DARRELL WOLFE:
Not surprisingly,
the basis of the report
was that it was far too
easy to start a medical school
and that most schools were not
teaching sound medicine.
Let me translate this for you.
These natural health
colleges were not
pushing enough chemical
drugs manufactured by who?
Carnegie and Rockefeller.
The AMA, who were evaluating
the various medical colleges,
made it their job to target and
shut down the larger respected
homeopathic colleges.
Carnegie and Rockefeller
began to immediately shower
hundreds of millions of dollars
on these medical schools
that were teaching
drug-intensive medicine.
>>NOORY: That's true, isn't it?
>>BURZYNSKI:
Absolutely, well, this
is why they are doing
a great job, of course.
They have congresses when
they present it to the public.
Numerous people
are attending this.
But they're doing a great job.
Ty Bollinger visited our
clinic a number of times.
He's a very good man.
>>NOORY: He is a good guy.
>>BURZYNSKI: So they're
trying to bring to the people
something which can save
their lives, at least
of some of them.
Well, there is
tremendous progress
in the area in
which I am involved,
but this progress,
at this moment,
is at a laboratory level.
Every week there
is something new.
>>NOORY: Expand.
>>BURZYNSKI: From
laboratory level,
it will filter to
clinical level.
>>NOORY: Did the government
try to shut you down?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
they were trying
to shut me down for 35 years.
So this was like 35 Years War.
I barely survived because
it was very difficult.
>>NOORY: It was tough.
>>BURZYNSKI: Great financial
losses, harassment,
living in horrible times.
They were trying to
shut us out, and they
knew that it even works.
So that's what is bad.
FDA admitted that they knew
that the treatment works.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
lose your medical license?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
Texas Medical Board
was trying to take
my license away
for testing the genes
which are causing cancer.
I began doing this 22 years
ago in our laboratory.
They attacked me.
Why do you test the genes in
blood which are causing cancer?
Now, a senate is going
to force Medicare
to request that everybody will
be tested this way to detect--
>>NOORY: This is
good news, right?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah,
it's good news
because it's moving forward.
But before this would
filter to oncologists,
it takes time because
they're very passive.
They are just obeying.
>>NOORY: Why, doctor, don't they
look at your success records
and go look what
this person is doing?
He's got this high rate of
60%, or whatever the number is.
Why don't they look at this?
It's there.
>>BURZYNSKI: They
don't look at this
because it didn't
come from Harvard,
didn't come from Mayo Clinic.
It comes from little
space, little place
which I am running.
And they feel that what
I publish is not true,
but I publish some
350 publications.
And now, every month,
I am producing one
to two publications about
the long-term survival.
I have about 300 patents.
There is a tremendous
amount of their --
I was going to various
congresses twice or four times
a year, the top congresses
regarding cancer,
and presented it.
But usually, they were
given me some hide--
they hide my research.
They didn't give me the lecture.
Oh, let's get a poster, OK?
So they neglected
this for many years,
but the time will come when
they will understand it.
This is typical for
scientific revolution.
We are coming to the point
when ultimately these people,
they will understand
whatever they were doing.
>>NOORY: And you're
convinced that you
can reverse terminal cancer?
>>BURZYNSKI: I am because I
am doing this all the time.
>>NOORY: You've seen it happen.
>>BURZYNSKI: Not in
everybody because it's
very complex, but in
many, many patients, yes.
>>NOORY: Why doesn't
it work for everybody?
>>BURZYNSKI: Because
everybody is different,
because the program is
coming from 23,000 genes.
>>NOORY: I see.
>>BURZYNSKI: And this is only
the first layer of complexity
because this is what we call
genetics, problems, the genes.
But then you have epigenetics,
which is even more complex,
the possibility of
30 million changes.
>>NOORY: What do
you think, doctor,
of vitamins and supplementation?
Does it help?
>>BURZYNSKI: They are
important, no doubt about it.
But in terminal cancer patients,
they play a secondary part.
If a patient cannot
swallow, well--
>>NOORY: You can't
take your vitamins.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I know a
person in St. Louis,
they're going to
give him a larynec--
they're going to remove
it because it's cancerous.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Does that sound
like it's gone too far?
>>BURZYNSKI: Correct, yes, but,
for instance, in many cases,
they have tubes because they
are not able to swallow.
They have cancer in
the esophagus, stomach,
or they have a brain
tumor which is causing
paralysis of the muscles.
But ultimately, they
may recover from this
if you have enough time.
We need somewhere like one to
two months to make sure that--
>>NOORY: It spreads that fast?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah,
if their survival
is measured in a few
days, then we really
don't have much chance.
And sometimes, they
bring such patients,
and we won't be able to help.
>>NOORY: What has been
the most satisfying aspect
of what you do?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
perhaps treatment
of malignant brain
tumors in children
because they are tragic cases.
All of them practically
die from such tumors.
>>NOORY: Does St Jude's
ever call you for help?
>>BURZYNSKI: No.
>>NOORY: You would
think they would.
>>BURZYNSKI: They
are against us.
We are seeing patients
coming from them,
but they don't say
good words from us.
Simply, they don't want
to look at the results.
FDA inspected all of our
results regarding brain tumors,
and they had a very
good opinion about it,
but it doesn't really
make the breakthrough
so the other guys will follow.
They still sabotage.
>>NOORY: Is there anybody
in government, high up,
who would back you publicly?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes,
there are such people,
but they are silent because
of political pressure.
>>NOORY: They're afraid.
>>BURZYNSKI: Some of
the top people at FDA,
they knew very well.
>>NOORY: Well, your
patients love what you do.
Let's look at some
of the stories.
>>BURZYNSKI: The patients
are very important.
- My name is Jodi Fenton.
Dr. Burzynski saved
my life 19 years ago
when I was diagnosed with an
inoperable brain tumor, known
as an anaplastic astrocytoma.
- My name is Dustin Canary, and
Dr. Burzynski saved my life.
- My wife is treated by
Dr. Stanislaw Burzynski,
an incredible human being who
I believe has found something
that could help so many people.
- Hannah's prognosis
was like 18 months.
- Yeah.
- And that was eight years ago.
- When I was 2 1/2 years old, I
was diagnosed with a stage four
medulloblastoma brain tumor.
- Conventional doctors offered
me chemotherapy and radiation
and said that maybe those
treatments would give me five
years to live, perhaps, maybe.
- 75% of the tumor was
surgically removed,
and the remaining 25% was
treated by Dr. Burzynski's
antineoplastons.
- I got my scan
results, and like,
there's nothing, not even a
teeny tiny little bit, left.
- The remaining tumor was gone,
and I've been in remission
for over 20 years.
- Within six months, all
that was left of the tumor
was scar tissue.
- I've been cancer-free
free for five years.
- Can ask you why are
you looking up there.
- I'm just thinking.
- Oh, OK.
- This is my thinking face.
- It is amazing, and
we never forget all
of the people that helped us.
- I'm doing my dream job,
working as a firefighter
paramedic, and my wife
is expecting this fall.
- It's now 19 years later.
I'm cancer-free, I'm a
thriving mother of two.
Dr. Burzynski saved my life,
and I owe my life to him.
Thank you, Dr. Burzynski.
- Without Dr. Burzynski, none
of this would be possible,
and I owe my life to him.
- I believe this guy needs
all of the adulation possible
and for people to
wake up and realize
who he is, what he's
done, what he's doing,
and how his treatment
could help so many people.
- I think we look younger
than we did, better, brighter.
- I think I'm a lot healthier.
- I think on that note, must
be the coffee that you drink.
OK, goodbye.
Say goodbye.
- Bye.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, what is
remarkable about these people
that they have a history
of being cancer-free,
and this was cancer which was
having very short survival
rate, for up to 27 years.
>>NOORY: Do they need to come
back for additional treatments,
like maintenance or anything?
>>BURZYNSKI: We use maintenance
treatment for regular eight
months after the tumor
is gone, and then they
can live happily ever after.
But what happens
with these people
is remarkable because
they completely recovered.
And some of them we
treated as little kids.
This young man was brought to
us when he was three years old.
He couldn't have standard
of care treatment
because he was too little.
And he recovered completely.
He is now a fireman,
and we are invited--
there was a time when we
were invited every two
months for another wedding
because these people got
married, and they did very well.
They have children now.
They live a normal life.
So I was invited to a Jewish
wedding, to a Baptist wedding.
>>NOORY: Mazel tov.
I tell you what, if I knew
anybody who had cancer,
I would send them to you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
We'll be glad to look
for what we can do.
>>NOORY: What can we
do to continue to help
you to get the word out?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, public
needs to be aware what is this
because the count that
politicians will do it,
or the docs will do
it, they don't do it.
They do it only when they
are forced by the public.
The public should be
aware that there is a way
to save people with
terminal cancer,
and they should
declare that this
should be approved because we
did more than any other company
regarding FDA requirements.
We did twelve phase
II clinical trials,
which prove safety
and efficacy in brain
tumors, different types.
Also, there was
randomized clinical trials
in colon cancer, which
spread to the liver.
>>NOORY: How about
pancreatic cancer?
That's the tough one.
>>BURZYNSKI: Did not
do clinical trials,
but we are getting
good results now.
So this principle can be
applied to any cancer,
but there is an abundance
of evidence that this works.
It should approved now.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BURZYNSKI: They're
dragging their feet.
>>NOORY: It'd save lives today.
>>BURZYNSKI: People are dying.
People could be saved, and
they are dragging their feet.
This should be
revealed to the public.
Enough is enough I would say.
>>NOORY: If somebody's
out there now
has a friend who has cancer,
can they call your clinic?
What do they do?
How do they make an appointment?
>>BURZYNSKI: They
should call our clinic
and I have a team of very
good people in the admission.
They will gather information.
They will make some
preliminary selection.
They present it to
the doctors, and we
would like to find out what
can we do for this patient.
Can we treat this
patient, or we cannot?
There's no sense for them
to come from the other end
of the world if we
cannot help them.
>>NOORY: Are there some
that you have to reject?
>>BURZYNSKI: Sure,
some of them we
are rejecting because we know
that we won't be able to help.
We rejected recently a
young man from Argentina.
They were planning to bring
him on a private plane
with a doctor, or whatever, but
we told him look it's too late,
he probably will
die within the week.
And he did.
They were planning to bring
him, and the same day he
died at home.
So we don't want
them to suffer more.
But some people are
desperate so they would
like to do whatever they can.
They can bring the team
of their own doctors
to help to take care
of the patients.
>>NOORY: It's a dreaded disease.
What do you think causes cancer?
>>BURZYNSKI: Numerous,
numerous, factors.
>>NOORY: Chemicals out
there, [INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>BURZYNSKI: So the real cause
of cancer are mutated genes,
and mutated genes were created
by thousands and thousands
of different factors.
Some of these genes are
inherited, but in most cases,
they are occurring
during the patient's life
and can be removed
from the body.
And you can prove it by
repeating the blood test, which
shows that they're gone.
When the tumors are
gone, genes are gone.
Nothing new about it to treat
the cause of the disease.
This was presented by
Aristotle as 3,300 years ago.
>>NOORY: Why can't the body,
doctor, fight this on its own?
>>BURZYNSKI: Because
body does not
have enough antineoplastons.
When cancer is advancing,
it's affecting the kidneys,
and kidneys is throwing
antineoplastons
from the system to the drain.
>>NOORY: Can you come up
with a pill that increases
these antineoplastons?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, so
when we suppress cancer,
then the cancer is
no longer releasing
chemicals which are
forcing antineoplastons
out of the body.
And the body will recover and
make these antineoplastons.
But initially, we need to
provide them from the outside.
>>NOORY: You do
a remarkable job.
How do people find you?
Do you have a website out there?
>>BURZYNSKI: Oh,
we have a website,
and we have numerous
publications.
But most cases, this
is word of mouth.
And people are happy
when they completely
recover so they would
like to talk about it.
They form organizations, like
patients with brain tumors.
Recently, I was
interviewed by organization
of parents whose children
died from DIPG, diffuse
intrinsic pontine glioma.
This was about a week ago,
a very good interview.
And they are trying
to be helpful,
and this is very important
because the action of people
will cause the change.
Ultimately, we still have
a democratic society,
even if we have so
many restrictions.
And the people's voice
could be very powerful.
>>NOORY: You were
born in Poland.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes, I
was born in Poland.
I suffered through Communism
and through Nazi occupation.
It was a horrible time,
but ultimately, I'm
glad I came to the US because
obviously, I would never
be able to do it in Poland.
They wanted to send me
to the army for life.
>>NOORY: Well, in
spite of the things
you've gone through here,
still the best country.
>>BURZYNSKI: I didn't
join the Communist Party.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
I'm glad you're
continuing doing what
you're doing to help humanity.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank you, well,
trying to do whatever I can.
It's not easy, but so far,
we've seen very good results.
And this is very important.
>>NOORY: Well, as they say,
the proof is in the pudding--
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: And you have the proof.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
>>NOORY: Doctor, thanks
for being on the program.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
It's my pleasure, and I would
like to thank you and Gaia
because I'm sure that a number
of people who will see this
will be helped.
>>NOORY: Truly remarkable, an
individual like Dr. Burzynski
who has put his career
on the line to save
lives, and he's saving them.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[MUSIC PLAYING]